# what the hell is going on in the background??

What you are looking at is a 2D classifier neural network training on binary classification data LIVE in your browser! More specifically, the red and blue dots are the data points, and the black dots are (a sample) of the decision boundary. In this case the boundary is chosen by looking at the softmax output of the network and only showing probabilities between 0.3 and 0.7. Every time the page is loaded, a 2-8-8-1 neural network is initialized with either ReLU or GELU activation between layers (they look different!) and a softmax at the end. Data is generated by randomly picking 1000 points in the 0-1 bounded 2D plane, then generating multiple blobs of points that are close to each other to pick the second label. Then this small model is trained with an AdamW optimizer (hence the bounciness) with full batch size of 1000. After each step, a grid of points is given as input and the output is colored according to the decision boundary. Now every 400 steps, the data is regenerated BUT the model stays the same, so the decision boundary has to readjust to the new data, which I think is super cool.

Again, this is NOT a GIF or video. It is running in your browser. How? All thanks to an amazing thing called [Pyodide](https://pyodide.org/en/stable/). It's a "Python distribution for the browser and Node.js based on WebAssembly." Honestly I don't know how that works but it's so sick, you can run Python AND some optimized libraries super fast in the browser, including numpy. So all the neural network stuff is written in pure numpy (yes manual backprop and all) and then called from JS using Pyodide. The rest is just some HTML and CSS to make it look nice. If you want to see the code, it's all in the [source of this site](https://github.com/zaydzuhri/zaydzuhri.github.io).

If you still don't believe me, you can check the console for the training logs. You can see the loss going down, and accuracy going up. (I hope this doesn't make the page slower, I clear the console every 100 epochs I hope that helps.)

Now enough reading, click the text below to see the network train in full glory! I can honestly watch this thing forever. Do note that in some rare occasions the network explodes and the decision boundary goes missing, but you can just refresh the page to start over.

<a markdown=1 onclick="content.innerHTML = ''; opacity = 0.5">Get the text out of here!</a>